kay koyuki spent 20 years in prison
after she confessed to having burned her
own eleven-year-old daughter to death in
fact her daughter died in a fire that
started from leaking petrol in the
family garage but so harsh was mrs. IO
he's questioning that she admitted to
murder after just one day she was
released in October so right there in
that one example you see several of the
crucial factors coming together that the
police are not investigating the crime
in this case they're not investigating
the physical reality of what started the
fire they are engaging in violence
immediately by default as their main
method of interrogating a person and
basically framing people and forcing
confessions instead of taking an
interest in the facts of the case from
day one and as you hear in the other
examples the methods of brutalizing
people to force them to confess to
crimes in Japan are just as terrible as
any third world dictatorship growing
numbers of false confessions have come
to like pardon me have come to light in
while hakamada
for example served 46 years on death row
before his release release in March of
2014 the judge who freed him found that
police and prosecutors had fabricated
evidence in his original trial for
murder he has also said he was
interrogated for 11 hours a day for 23
days beaten with nightsticks and prodded
with pins if he fell asleep the Japanese
government uses torture not as part of
war not as part of an attempt to defeat
a conquered Ayami people the Japanese
government uses torture against its own
citizens as a completely routine part of
its criminal justice system and Japan
has one of the most notorious criminal
justice systems in the world what I'm
saying would only be shocking or
surprising to someone whose opinion of
Japan is big
stone cartoons video games TV shows they
give a glorified view of a society that
has been struggling to escape the shadow
of its own fascist heritage if instead
your approach Japan is primarily through
political science or simply through
reading reasonably respectable
publications like The Economist The
Magazine I'm gonna read you a little bit
from in a minute here it wouldn't be
surprising at all just say a little bit
about how I relate to this story and how
the Economist is a publication what's
the story this is something the authors
of the Economist The Economist is
written anonymously most of the magazine
does not state who the author is for any
given article this is something
economists seem to have had in sort of
the their back pocket for many years and
every year every couple of years they
come back and write another article on
this same story in a sense there is no
story there is no news there's nothing
new and exciting about this there's
simply a gap between public perception
and political reality and the perception
is that Japan is a squeaky-clean modern
highly westernized highly industrialized
nation that one might blithely assume
meets the highest standards for
procedural justice shall we say and the
reality is that Japan treats people
accused of crimes with all the brutality
of the world's most notorious and
backward third-world dictatorships so
that is a contrast worth talking about
and it's worth talking about again and
again and I appreciate that this
magazine The Economist has returned to
this issue again and again even though
there's nothing in particular that's
made headlines definitely nothing in
particular in the Western world the
situation for the process of the law in
Japan although absolutely terrible is
not surprising if you're familiar with
Cambodia Laos Thailand communist China
most of Asia has an abysmally low
standard of shall we say human rights
human rights a little too vague what
we're really talking about here is
procedural justice people say you're in
so proven guilty are you actually
treated as innocent do you really have
the ability and the possibility to
defend yourself people say you have
access to your lawyer what does that
really mean if you're poor you can't
afford a lawyer all these questions in
practice so as a procedural justice they
are matters of procedure they're not
matters of bare principle as standard in
the constitution of a country but
questions of how these things really
clay have it now I wrote a couple of
blogs I guess I'll give links to the the
earlier blogs below this video and they
are really brief and they got thousands
and thousands of readers I somebody
shared a link at Japan and I got a lot
of readers of this but the entries in my
blog they're just a couple of paragraphs
long and basically what they say is look
the statistics for how terrible the
Japanese legal system are they seem
unbelievable but using my very limited
ability in the Japanese language I went
to the websites of the Japanese
government that provided the statistics
directly I looked at the statistics in
detail looked at all the footnotes so to
speak and yeah the statistics are real
I'm amazed I was shocked it's not what I
was expecting but these unbelievable
statistics are in fact real and the very
deep problems in the procedural justice
system in Japan are shockingly real so
moving past the headlines moving past
newspaper coverage to look at real
social status sistex yeah this is one of
the glaring problems in Japanese society
in life the responses I got I mean
obviously a large number people just
read the articles daughter Hurley yep
this is a big problem and didn't say
anything to me but I got angry emails
and one real kind of stalker for four
months pursuing me after the internet
denouncing me and refusing to believe in
what I was saying about Japan and I mean
psychologically and philosophically
there's some of the interesting thing
about here evidently there are some
white Western people who have a
glorified view of Japan that I think is
mostly based on playing video games and
watching cartoons and so on and they
then feel disillusioned they feel angry
at me
I mean these articles I wrote I'm not
even I thought they don't Steve my
opinion they really just say this is the
source of this claim and here's what the
actual data says there is no opinion in
them obviously white people who have
this glorified view of Japan are not
alone in the world they're not
completely unique in having this sort of
experience with a foreign culture I
think the one thing they have to be
compared to directly it would be someone
who grows up in Asia with a glorified
view of Los Angeles and grows up
watching movies that make California
look like paradise and then only later
learns for example police corruption is
a big problem in California police
brutality is a big problem that the
justice system in California is terrible
and that in general a city like Los
Angeles has many profound and shocking
social problems uh situation though I've
never met or talked to somebody with you
that I've known people from so many
different countries so many different
cultural backgrounds I have never
personally known someone who had a
glorified view of the United States and
then was disillusioned that way and I
guess it's because the critiques the
United States are also so much in the
news in the mainstream press the whole
legacy and shadow of the Vietnam War
hang so heavily over the net States or
did during my lifetime now it's the
shadow of military intervention in Iraq
and Afghanistan and so on but I guess
it's true that while the United States
is glorified it's also criticized in
these same sorts of media sources and
Japan is not with Japan you get the
glorification and if you don't seek it
out if you're not reading
I don't know political science journals
or something if you're not hunting down
more skeptical sources then I guess you
never hear the other side
last year confessions underpinned 89
percent of criminal prosecutions in
Japan and almost for that exception
those who confess are found guilty the
overall conviction rate is a staggering
ninety-nine point eight percent so those
are the type of statistics that just
mentioned I found them a me
when I first saw them and then I got
direct reports in Japanese government
with all the definitions and footnotes
of you know when I look at that some
ninety-nine point eight percent
conviction rate I was thinking well
maybe there were some other categories
maybe they are including with conviction
cases that end in an indecisive way
maybe there were some footnotes there
that we know ninety-nine point eight
percent conviction rate is closely
comparable to Communist China or other
total dictatorships where nobody's
treated as innocent than someone where
process is railroaded and yeah that's a
real warning for Japan now among by
so-called critics the weeaboo solonian
denouncing me because I dare to
criticize social problems in Japan
their only point was to indicate that by
contrast the total number of criminals
the total number of crimes that get
tried is very low in Japan that's true
in contrast in Japan to Los Angeles
California the total number of crimes
being committed and processed by the
system is dramatically lower however
does that make this situation better or
worse I think morally you have to
recognize that actually the problem
profound problems we have with Japan's
criminal justice system are worse
precisely because the system is not
overwhelmed to give a contrasting
example many people complained about how
poorly criminal justice system operated
in New Orleans during their flood when
hurricane came in and destroyed most the
city Hurricane Katrina was called and
you know law and order broke down and
many things became very badly run um
what do you expect in many cases the
actual police stations were abandoned
you know the system disintegrated just
due to the weather and then beyond that
they were overwhelmed with more cries
for help and more duties than they could
attend to
you know police and firemen and so on
obviously they were trying to help
people who are actually drowning and
they also had huge numbers of crimes
being reported looting at that
so those situations was symptom system
being overwhelmed
in Japan if we're looking at torture etc
in the criminal justice system it is not
really an excuse or a rationale to say
that there are very few crimes committed
in total on the contrary that indicates
the extent to which the Japanese use
this as their default method of ruling
and governing and enforcing the law this
is not something they resort to only
under extreme circumstances such as New
Orleans under a hurricane or such as an
Army of Occupation fighting an armed
resistance there is no pressure on the
Japanese to resort to these brutal
tactics and yet it is what they do
prosecutors put pressure on the police
to extract confessions and the 23 day
period is plenty of time to extract one
interrogators sometimes ramp tables into
a suspect stamp on his feet or show in
his ears interviews can last for eight
hours or more suspects are deprived of
sleep and forced into physically awkward
positions few people can withstand such
treatment not being able to sleep was
the hardest for me says Kazuo Ishiguro
who held on for 30 days before signing a
confession he could not read he was
illiterate at the time a confession to a
murder he says he didn't commit
he spent 32 years in prison and is still
fighting to be exonerated